
|           |                                      |
|:----------|:-------------------------------------|
|__Feature__|AWS Encryption SDK Message Encryption |
|__Version__|1                                     |
|__Created__|2016-06-25                            |
|__Updated__|2018-08-14                            |

## Dependencies

This serves as a reference of all features that this feature depends on.

| Feature                                             | Min Version | Max Version |
|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| [0002-keys](./0002-keys.md)                         | 1           | n/a         |
| [0005-awses-master-key](./0005-awses-master-key.md) | 1           | n/a         |

## Experimental Implementations

This serves as a reference for which implementations support this experimental feature. This
section should be removed once this feature is promoted from experimental status.

Unique implementations required for promotion: 2

| Repository                                                                         | Language | Pull Request                                             |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| https://github.com/aws/aws-encryption-sdk-python/tree/master/test_vector_generator | Python   | https://github.com/aws/aws-encryption-sdk-python/pull/63 |
| Link to GitHub repository                                                          | Language | Pull request that added support                          |

## Supported Implementations

This serves as a references for which implementations support this feature. A minimum of two supporting implementations
are required for new feature versions.

| Repository                | Language | Feature Version                   | Minimum Version                                    | Pull Request                    |
|---------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| Link to GitHub repository | Language | Supported version of this feature | Minimum version that supports this feature version | Pull request that added support |
| Link to GitHub repository | Language | Supported version of this feature | Minimum version that supports this feature version | Pull request that added support |

## Summary

An AWS Encryption SDK Message Encryption manifest defines rules for generating full ciphertext
message test vectors. This includes all necessary details such as master key(s), encryption
context, algorithm suite, and frame size.

## Out of Scope

This file is not a description of how the test vectors that will be generated by a compatible 
client should be decrypted.

## Motivation

We need a way of describing all scenarios that we want to cover with test vectors for full AWS 
Encryption SDK ciphertext messages. This will be used both for generating known good test vectors 
with a known good implementation as well as for generating test vectors with an unknown implementation 
to be tested for compatibility using a known good implementation.

## Guide-level Explanation

This type of manifest describes test vectors to create. Processing these test scenarios will result
in complete AWS Encryption SDK ciphertext messages along with a corresponding [0004-awses-message-decryption](0004-awses-message-decryption.md)
manifest.

Each test scenarios includes all necessary instructions to construct a ciphertext message. This includes 
all necessary inputs including algorithm suite, frame size, encryption context, and master key(s).

### Processing Workflow

In this description, the handler's "destination" is a location (file directory, S3 bucket, etc)
to which a handler will write generated data: plaintexts, ciphertexts, and manifests.

To process a manifest of this type, a compatible handler must first read a message encryption
manifest and the keys manifest that it must identify. This will give the handler sufficient
information about what scenarios should be used to generate ciphertexts.

One of the things that this manifest type specifies is named plaintext descriptions. These
plaintexts must now be generated and written to the handler's destination. They are used
as the input plaintexts for the test scenarios.

The handler must now process the described test scenarios. Each scenario will result
in ciphertext data being written to the handler's destination along with a test case description
that will be included in the message decryption manifest.

Once all test scenarios are processed, the test case descriptions are used to build an
AWS Encryption SDK Message Decryption manifest. This manifest is then written to the
handler's destination along with the keys manifest.

## Reference-level Explanation

The `0003-awses-message-encryption-generate.py` script in this package will generate a manifest that describes 
the below test cases and references the keys manifest generated by `0002-keys-generate.py`. This 
should be treated as the canonical AWS Encryption SDK message encryption manifest file, defining
all message encryption test vectors that a complete implementation must be able to generate.

### Contents

### manifest

Map identifying the manifest.

* `type` : Identifies the manifest as an AWS Encryption SDK message encryption manifest.
   * Must be `awses-encrypt`
* `version` : Identifies the version of this feature document that describes the manifest.

#### keys

URI identifying a [keys manifest](./0002-keys.md) to use with all tests.

#### plaintexts

Map of plaintext names to size in bytes.

These plaintexts will be generated by the handler and should be random byte vectors of the specified 
number of bytes.

#### tests

Map object mapping a test case ID to a test case description that describes how to generate a 
test vector.

* `plaintext` : Plaintext source name
* `algorithm` : Hex string of supported [Algorithm ID](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/encryption-sdk/latest/developer-guide/algorithms-def.html)
* `frame-size` : Frame size in bytes (0 for nonframed)
* `encryption-context` : Map of keys and values to use for encryption context
* `master-keys` : List of Master Key descriptions as defined in [0005-awses-master-key](./0005-awses-master-key.md)

### Scenarios to test

These are a set of scenarios that we know we want to test for all implementations. The `0003-awses-message-encryption-generate.py`
script will generate a manifest that correctly describes these scenarios.

#### Algorithm Suites

* Every [Algorithm Suite supported by the AWS Encryption SDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/encryption-sdk/latest/developer-guide/algorithms-reference.html)

#### Framing

* Non-framed message
* Framed message with frame size smaller than plaintext size
* Framed message with frame size equal to plaintext size
* Framed message with frame size larger than plaintext size
* Framed message with >10 frames

#### Encryption Context

* Message without encryption context
* Message with encryption context
* Unicode values in encryption context
* No unicode values in encryption context

#### Master Key Providers

* Single AWS KMS MasterKey that can be decrypted by all consumers
* Multiple AWS KMS MasterKeys of which only one can be decrypted by all consumers
* Single AES Symmetric Raw MasterKey that can be decrypted
* Multiple Symmetric Raw MasterKeys of which only one can be decrypted
* Single RSA Asymmetric Raw MasterKey that can be decrypted
* Multiple Asymmetric Raw MasterKeys of which only one can be decrypted


### Example

```json
{
    "manifest": {
        "type": "awses-encrypt",
        "version": 1
    },
    "keys": "file://relative/file/path.json",
    "plaintexts": {
        "small": 1024
    },
    "tests": {
        "2d1e0da9-74f8-4817-842d-c2b973abed7c": {
            "plaintext": "small",
            "algorithm": "0014",
            "frame-size": 1024,
            "encryption-context": {},
            "master-keys": [
                {
                    "type": "raw",
                    "provider-id": "aws-raw-vectors-persistant",
                    "key": "rsa-4096-private",
                    "encryption-algorithm": "rsa",
                    "padding-algorithm": "oaep-mgf1",
                    "padding-hash": "sha256"
                }
            ]
        },
        "f7f3416b-7527-4108-8d15-6d0d5a377a2c": {
            "plaintext": "small",
            "algorithm": "0378",
            "frame-size": 500,
            "encryption-context": {
                "classification": "secret squirrel",
                "nuts": "acorn"
            },
            "master-keys": [
                {
                    "type": "aws-kms",
                    "key": "us-west-2-decryptable"
                },
                {
                    "type": "aws-kms",
                    "key": "us-west-2-encrypt-only"
                    
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```
